[Music]
then the Lord said to Noah come into the
ark you and all your household because I
have seen that you are righteous before
me in his his creation you shall take
with you seven each of every clean
animal a male and his female to each of
animals that are unclean a male and his
female also seven each of birds of the
air male and female to keep the species
alive on the face of all the earth for
after seven more days I will cause it to
rain on the earth forty days and forty
nights and I will destroy from the face
of the earth all living things
and Noah did according to all that the
LORD commanded him Noah was 600 years
old when the flood waters were on the
earth so Noah with his sons his wife and
his sons wives went into the ark because
of the waters of the flood of clean
animals of animals that are unclean of
birds and of everything that creeps on
the air two by two they went into the
ark to no male and female as God had
commanded
and it claimed two paths after seven
days that the waters of the flood were
on the earth in a six hundredth year of
Noah's life in the second month the
seventeenth day of the month on that day
all the Fountains of the great deep were
broken up and the windows of heaven were
opened and the rain was on the earth 40
days and 40 nights on the very same day
Noah and Noah's sons Shem ham and
Japheth and Noah's wife and the three
wives of his sons with them entered the
earth they and every beast after its
kind all cattle after their kind every
creeping thing that creeps on the earth
after its kind and every bird after its
kind every bird of every sort and they
went into the ark to know two by two of
all flesh in which is the breath of life
so those that entered male and female of
all flesh went in as God commanded him
and the Lord shut him
now with the flood was of the earth
forty days the waters increased and
lifted out of the ark and it rose high
above the earth the waters prevailed and
greatly increased on the earth and they
are moved about on the surface of the
waters and the waters prevailed
exceedingly on the earth and all the
high hills under the whole heaven were
covered the waters prevailed 15 cubits
upward and the mountains were covered
and all flesh died that moved on the
earth birds and cattle and beasts and
every creeping thing that creeps on the
earth and every man
all in whose nostrils was the breath of
the spirit of life all that was in the
dry land died
so he destroyed all living things which
were the face of the ground both Man and
Captain creeping thing and bird of the
air they were destroyed from the earth
only now and those who are with him in
the Ark remained alive and the waters
prevailed on the earth 150 days